around
[Music]
what's up guys Alex here from audio
edges and today we're going to be
showing you guys five rap vocal effects
that I think you're absolutely going to
love some of them are a little easier
some of them sound really crazy and
complicated but they're not that hard to
do and it's gonna sound incredible in
your Productions to really help take you
to the next level a couple of these I
haven't seen anywhere else and I think
it's gonna blow your mind if you love
this video and you want to uh help
support the channel make sure to
subscribe like and drop a comment let me
know what you want to see next before we
get to the video I want to let you know
that into the description we have a free
resource for you that's absolutely
incredible it's called the home studio
setup guide and it breaks down exactly
how a home studio setup works and how
you can make the most out of your home
studio setup download that now we're
gonna absolutely rock this video today
let's Dive Right In
foreign
so glasses I got to see my screen here
okay so here's what's up we got this
little track that I put together the
other day and it's basically just a
really simple beat with a wrap vocal on
top it sounds like this
[Music]
okay
all right so that's basically what's
going on and we're gonna start with a
very common effect that you've probably
heard of before it's called a delay
throw so here's how that's gonna work
right now on my vocals I just have these
two vocals I have the lead and the lead
vocal X the lead vocal X just means
crossover of this main lead vocal okay
just to give you guys some context you
can see the vocal crosses over into each
other I don't want to put them on the
same track because they'll be cutting
each other off so I have a duplicate
with the exact same settings and it's
just a lead vocal crossover so don't get
freaked out by these two different
tracks that's all that's going on there
what we're gonna do is show you guys the
mixer page I've got a little bit of
basic stuff going on I just got a little
bit of width I'm using micro shift to
add a little bit of width to each of the
lead vocals but that's no big deal don't
stress about it the other thing is we
got a Reverb here and we're going to be
using the review verb just to enhance a
couple of our effects including this
vocal delay throw that we're going to do
so what we're going to do first is going
to new track and I got to bring this
window up so you can see it we're going
to add a track we're going to call it
vocal delay throw okay it's going to be
stereo
we're going to solo safe it and we're
going to send it to our mix bus where
everything else is going okay and what
I'm going to do is put right on this
track a delay plugin we're going to use
H Delay from waves okay and I'm going to
show you guys how I dial in these
settings in just a moment but first
we're going to go back to our mixer page
and show you guys what we're going to do
with a delay throw you want to pick
certain words just certain words to
emphasize you don't want the whole vocal
going to the delay throw because it's
going to create all this crazy
pandemonium of just too many delays all
over the place we're going to pick
select words throw it to that delay
throw using this send okay that's how it
works we throw this in we're going to
automate this end to throw certain delay
words and those will be delayed back to
us so let's have a listen to this vocal
we're going to pick a couple words here
and there you don't want to go overboard
with this and we're going to subtly send
them to this delay throw that we're
setting up okay so let's have a listen
and pick some words
all right let's do die right here okay
so I'm gonna highlight it
[Music]
and I'm gonna go here to the automation
area okay and I'm gonna bring this up I
can bring it up all the way and then
bring it down after but I don't want to
blow your guys ears out so I'm just
going to bring it to zero which is
called Unity gain and that's always a
good place to send from okay so check it
out
did you hear that let's solo it it's
coming it's coming through into our
delay I keep waiting on my side
problem is uh
this is a bit too fast so we have our
BPM set that's great but we gotta maybe
go with something like a quarter note
here and I'm gonna set this on ping pong
so it's going to bounce across our ears
left to right let's have a listen look
at the right or die I keep playing by my
side CJ ack now the other quarter note
worked a lot better it's right on the
beat quarter note always sounds good
with a delay throw so let's dial in a
high pass and low pass and what this
does is it shaves off the low end and
the high end to give us more of a radio
filtered type of sound that we're going
to try out here let's have a listen know
that the ride or die I keep brain by my
side CJ got a little more highs
on my side CJ okay sweet so that's
sounding pretty cool I like the quarter
note we're gonna pick a couple other
words here to try out now I've got a
roll with us all right so let's do us
right here okay
oops I'm just going to switch to slip
mode I'm gonna grab this guy bring it up
to zero okay I'm Gonna Roll with ice hi
hi all right and Let's do let's pick one
more from this crossover
all right so I also got to get this
delay throw going on this track
let's check it out
[Music]
all right let's just do that right now
okay deal right now
my name came up
okay and that is how you do a delay
throw
[Music]
here's how we're gonna make this even
better before we get to the next tip
and that is did you hear the ping pong
how it was really wide one trick that I
figured out is it sounds a little better
I think if you dial the panning in just
a little bit something like 60 50 45 and
then we're gonna send this just to I'm
just going to copy this Reverb over
we're going to send the delay throw to a
little bit of this little plate Reverb
that I set up and it's just going to
make that delay a little bit more wet
and help it sit nicely in the background
my name
[Music]
all right I think overall these delay
throws are too loud so what I'm going to
do is just bring it down a little bit
here okay
you could bring it down from the send or
whatever but uh this is just a little
easier for me to do right now because I
have a couple from this track I have one
here and this is just a quicker move
okay
here's one more way you can spice up
this delay throw we're gonna add
something called little altar boy
all right this is something I figured
out a little while ago to make the
delays a little more interesting okay so
we're going to solo this
and we're gonna play it and what I'm
going to do is use this format knob just
to change the format of the delay a
little bit I don't die I
let's bring it way down just so you can
hear with context
did you hear that
that's more higher pitch I like to bring
it down just a tiny bit like maybe like
1.5 just to keep it interesting and you
can drive it a little bit with
saturation too which sounds pretty good
all right so that's it that's optional
if you want to do a form and shift uh
that's something I've been doing lately
on some mixes and it just sounds killer
okay so that's version number one uh
technique number one let's dive into
technique number two all right technique
number two we were just talking about
form and shifting and we're gonna do
that a little more aggressively this
time and we're gonna do it on our lead
vocal so I'm loading up a plug-in on our
lead vocal here called little Ultra boy
okay and it's the one that we were just
looking at a moment ago and what we're
going to do is we're going to use this
formant okay in this technique to make
our vocal a little more interesting and
to help emphasize and screw up with a
few words here and there so have a
listen
he fly know that the road will die by my
side okay so what I want to do is
automate this formant I'm going to click
control option command in Pro Tools but
any Daw has different ways to do this
you just look it up for your DAW and I'm
going to make sure it looks like I
already enabled it so I'm going to
disable it so I can show you I'm going
to enable the automation okay for this
then what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go to my window here and I'm going to
click Foreman which is the thing that I
enabled automation for here's my
automation line and now I can draw in
Automation and mess with my format so
just like have a listen just for example
oh these but is my guys know that he fly
know that they ride did you hear that
he's brought us my gas know that he fly
know that
I'm just doing it when you do this on
your song like spend time really
figuring that out which words it works
best on uh this is just for the purpose
of demonstration so you can see what's
possible know that the right of
let's bring this way down
let's try like a slow formant shift down
like this right here
see how cool that sounds so go through
your song Don't overuse this if you
overuse it it's gonna just sound a
little too a little too comedic if
you're overusing it but if you use it
strategically and just on certain words
it's going to sound really really cool
that's technique number two form and
shifting it sounds like this Cody's
Brothers my guys know that he fly know
that the road or die
CJ ack now I gotta roll with us that's
kind of cool we're now combining that
delay through some form and shifting uh
let's move on to technique number three
okay technique number three is gonna be
a telephone filter okay and what we're
gonna do is we're gonna strategically
pick a moment in the song where the
vocal is going to switch to the
telephone sound and I'm going to show
you exactly how to dial it in so let's
have a listen Maybe from here okay
okay
I think if we hit this this second half
of the first of the verse here with the
filter it's gonna sound great so I've
already loaded up this Pro Q3 but I'm
gonna I'm gonna redo it just so we're
doing it from scratch together okay so
I'm bringing up a pro Q3 here let me
just default this all right so what
we're going to do is we're gonna the
idea is to filter out the lows okay and
filter out the highs you can do this
with any EQ it doesn't have to be Pro Q3
do not get spooked by the pro Q3 if you
don't have it
there are amazing eqs you can use
whatever you want and you're going to
boost kind of around here around 1K to
2K and then it's going to give you a
filter that sounds like this
[Music]
uh you can tweak this how you want
fabfilter has its own preset that looks
like this and you can tweak this how you
want to
make your big kills enough time to peace
and gloves
so depending how your vocal sounds you
can tweak that filter
um and that's basically the idea High
Pass low pass you're gonna get a phone
sound okay but what we want to do is I
don't now I have this on this track I
don't want this whole track to have this
filter I think it's going to be sound
too too it's going to be too much of
half the verse with a telephone filter
so guess what I have to do again I have
to automate this so we're going to go to
this bypass here I'm going to go control
option command and I'm going to click
enable automation okay so now we're
going to go over here and I'm going to
enable the Automation and I said I was
thinking these first few lines would
work pretty well so let's just hear what
I want to automate
[Music]
probably like after make your right here
so I'm gonna bring
I'm gonna bring the track around it
uh up
so that this you can see it's bypassed
but when I click in here
the effect is applied with Pro Q3 okay
so we automated that just to turn on
make sure that your edit here where you
have this bypass happening make sure
it's not happening during a word like
this because that's going to cause a pop
or it's just going to sound bizarre
because your effects which is part way
through a word you want this to be a
transparent switch so make sure your
edit is in between words really
carefully okay so let's have a listen to
how this sounds
[Music]
okay so that's the idea there all right
uh I think it sounds pretty awesome and
if you use that you can use it on just
specific words or you can use it on
parts or phrases it's a really cool
effect and it's it's uh it's definitely
it's definitely a staple uh but you
gotta know it so that's number three
telephone vocal all right next one we're
gonna do is a stutter lead-in this is
technique number four let's check it out
alright so uh this stutter technique is
something that I kind of figured out on
my own after listening to a bunch of
music with similar effects and thinking
wow I gotta figure out how to do that
and uh ever since I figured it out I've
been using this on a ton of songs since
and artists love it every time it sounds
so so cool so what we're gonna do we're
gonna go to waveform view here and we're
gonna do an effect using the beginning
of a word and it's going to be this cool
lead-in effect okay so what I'm going to
do is bring up I've created a couple
different tracks here that are just
duplicates this track here is just a
duplicate of the lead vocal track so
duplicate your lead vocal track
and
I'm going to leave that filter on for
later we're going to use that later
here's what you want you want to grab
the beginning
of the very first word okay maybe the
first half of the word okay I'm going to
go into grid mode to grab this
actually I'm gonna grab a little more I
think this is the word cool okay and
listen really carefully when you do it
so that um
you're actually grabbing like a good
part of the word
okay and we're gonna do something that
looks a little bit like this I'm gonna
just paste I'll hold up a sec and paste
that
here okay
and
just checking my settings I'm going to
paste it twice okay we're pasting like
two sixteenth notes and that's going to
do this like quick stutter lead in and
I'm also going to paste it up here but
I'm going to paste a little bit longer
version of the word I'm going to paste
it again there okay so here's what this
sounds like I have kind of an eighth
note an eighth note and two quick
sixteenth notes of the beginning of this
word here's what it sounds like I'm
going to unmute this you guys can hear
it
so already without even adding some
adding some sauce to it like we're about
to do it's sounding really really cool
uh the only sauce I'm gonna add on this
guy is we're going to bring up this
telephone filter again that we just
talked about so you guys should know how
to do this already because we're going
in order you're gonna put on this
telephone filter on this effects right
here and so part of the stutter the
reason I don't do it like this you're
probably wondering why I don't do it
like this the reason why is because I
only want the telephone effects on this
first eighth note and these two
sixteenth notes because it sounds really
cool when it switches back and forth
from telephone to non-telephone so I put
the non-telephone up top have a listen
sweet right here's the next thing we're
going to do we're going to pan this
track right okay this is the one with
the telephone filter it's going to be
panned
okay
and one other thing you might want to do
is if if these are like clicking and
popping for you make sure to carefully
add Fades on them
all right
and that that's going to help you out if
you're getting like uh clicking and
popping make sure to do like do your
edits carefully don't rush through it uh
like like it's part of a video okay
spend time getting these down okay but
this is just an example
um and when I mix I really fine tune
these two
okay so check that out sounding pretty
sweet it's panned and what we're going
to do with this one okay this one up
here we're gonna pan that left
I'm just grabbing part of the track
because this is our lead vocal here I
want the lead vocal effects on this
piece but I don't want the rest of the
vocal panel left I want that in the
middle so I'm automating the panning
that way okay just for that word
Cody's okay so we're gonna have this
bread is my sweet right this is now two
this is a little bit too loud I want it
to be quieter
Cody's brother's mine and then it hits
full volume here you see what I mean so
let's check it out
and what's gonna make this a little
better is a gradual fade in on these
it adds a little bit of urgency
we go like that
oh these brothers it just leads it in
and then that beat hits hard it's gonna
sound great so let's check it out the
last thing we're gonna do is add a
little bit of vocal Reverb onto this
right now I think it's bypass so I'm
gonna just bring in that vocal Reverb
and we're gonna have a little bit of
Reverb come in on on these stutters I
think that's gonna sound great
[Music]
if I wanted to I could add a little bit
of Reverb here as well
um this is bypass so I have to not have
a bypass I want the rest of my vocal dry
so I'm gonna have the whole thing dry
except for this one effect you could do
this whole piece on its own track and
then you don't have to automate it you
can do that too but this is kind of how
it's all going to sound when it's done
all right maybe a little bit less
that sounds insane all right so that's
technique number four uh stutter intro
and let's dive into technique number
five I think you guys are gonna love
this one okay we're gonna move down here
to the end of the song where we have
this chorus section and we're going to
do another stuttered kind of effect but
it's going to go really fast and it's
going to sound really crazy there's
going to be some reverse Reverb and some
panning but don't get don't get freaked
out by that it's actually really easy
and I'm going to break it down for you
right now so let's have a listen there's
a little space here okay I think we have
a delay throw from earlier
so what we're going to do is bring that
delay throw down okay because I don't
want it to get in the way of what we're
going to do we're going to do something
really cool in this space
[Music]
we're putting that more in the
background really quiet
um it could go even quieter all right so
now what we're going to do is we're
going to look at the beginning of this
phrase this is the chorus sounds like
this
all right and I think I actually have an
old telephone vocal here that we just
heard I'm going to mute that what we
want to do is grab the beginning of the
word that happens on the one a big
mistake you could make is you're trying
to do this and you're going to try and
grab this first word you don't actually
want to grab the first word because it's
not going to line up right when you
create this stutter you want to grab the
word that's on the one and in this case
it's this it's a name my name okay so
have one have a listen
[Music]
Okay so I'm gonna just grab literally a
16th note of the name okay
and like I said before find find the
edit spot grab it carefully make sure
it's right I'm going to copy that and
I'm going to paste it here onto actually
I'm going to bring up a different track
because we're going to do some different
effects on this one okay
uh we're gonna we're gonna put it right
here onto this one
I don't know what this this little Ultra
boys for I'm actually going to take that
off this is literally an identical copy
of the lead vocal track that's right
here okay so I'm gonna grab a copy
and I'm going to paste it onto
the track below called vocal effects
okay and we're going to do something
cool with this vocal effects track it's
the same settings as this vocal I did
remove that altar boy but what we're
going to do is we're going to paste
about 6 16th notes going into this
and I'm going to fade them just going to
do a quick command F on here just
Crossfade them so they don't click and
pop as they play here's what that sounds
like
[Music]
it already sounds cool and we haven't
even added the sauce so let's add the
sauce okay guys uh what's going on here
we got some automation panning that
happened when I uh when I pasted that I
want to make sure that this is centered
good okay so we got those 16th notes
going on and what we're going to do is
we're gonna add to start
a reverse Reverb okay so I'm going to
grab our verb I'm going to just click
through here until the first reverse
Reverb this is just gonna this is going
to be fine for what we're doing and
right now it's on 100 wet here's what
that sounds like
all right so it's too much obviously but
we do want it pretty wet so I'm going to
dial it back to maybe like 70 or 80.
sweet right
and the reason it's okay usually I will
recommend putting a Reverb on a send so
you send to the Reverb but in this case
we're using this entire vocal effects
track right here we're using it as its
own kind of creative effects track and
in this case it's okay to put the Reverb
on just directly on the track because
that's all it's being used for and it's
totally cool all right the other reason
is because we're going to add a panning
plug-in right afterwards if you don't
have a panning plug-in in your Dar you
haven't uh you don't have sound toys or
whatever don't freak out just automate a
lot of quick panning within within this
track okay and the reason I'm putting it
after the Reverb probably you're
wondering that's a little crazy right
yes it is and the reason I'm doing it is
because it's going to pan the Reverb
around too and that's going to sound
really it's it's very disorienting but
it makes this really cool uh this effect
for this wrap okay so what I want to do
is the rate determines how fast this
plugin works so I want a fast rate
you see this smoothing here this is like
how much it leans one way and Pops back
I want to put that to soft so it's even
okay or at least more even I'm going to
get it really wide to the max all the
way left all the way right and have a
fast rate and here's what it sounds like
crazy right
foreign
it's just like it's weird and it it
feels like it's wrong but it sounds so
good and yeah that's exactly what we
want okay last thing I'm going to do is
gradual Crescendo because that's going
to help give it the momentum going to
this chorus here's what it sounds like
and you hear that Reaver bringing out
we don't really want that we want the
Reverb happening during the effect but
we want to kind of get rid of it after
so we go right back into this dry vocal
feel that crispy dry vocal
all right overall this track could be a
little bit too loud so I'm going to
bring it down and here's what we got
and that's technique number five all
right guys so let's have a listen to
everything and hear all of these effects
together there's a lot going on and if
you're doing this as an actual song you
probably want to space it out more and
use it strategically but for the sake of
this video uh let's put it all together
and enjoy some of these effects here we
go
[Music]
wrong with us
all right guys so that that that's
what's up that's what's up we just did
five wrap mixing effects that are gonna
absolutely change your game and make
your songs sound incredible I'm so so
glad that you joined me on this video
today I hope you enjoyed it if you liked
it subscribe to the channel that really
really helps us out like and comment and
also don't forget to go check out the
description where you can download the
free home studio setup guide I think
you're absolutely gonna love it it's
going to shed a lot of light on how a
home studio setup Works tell you a bit
of my story and just get you in the loop
on everything so thanks again for
checking out this video and we're going
to see you again next time peace
[Music]